# Alphatech_HashHacks4

*Problem Statement* :-

1. While Training in the Gym, there's always a chance of injuring oneself due to **wrong posture** or improper handling of equipment.

2. To prevent injuries due to wrong body posture, experienced gym trainers must have an eye on the person performing exercises but in India,    most of the gyms have 2 to 4 trainers at most and thus it's **not possible for trainer to give a personalized feedback about the body posture to every one** exercising in the gym.

*Solution* :-

1. So this is where the concept of artificially intelligent a.k.a 'The AI Gym' comes, which acts like your **personal gym trainer** and helps in **reducing the chance of injury while performing exercises by correcting your body posture in the real time.**

2. While exercising, the postures and motion of people will be captured using the cameras installed with the mirrors in the gym.

3. For pose estimation we use OPENPOSE which is a pre trained deep neural network. This helps us plot user's body joints as KEYPOINTS and mark them as vectors which encodes the position and orientation of the limbs.

4. the data generated by computer vision using openpose will be fed to machine learning model, which is pretrained using sample data of correct postures while performing a particular exercise, and will be then used to compare user body posture with the correct posture.

5. As predicted by the ML model, we give the analysis report to the user while performing the exercise in the real time

  ex. For Bicep Curl Exercise :-  
*Your upper arm shows significant rotation around the shoulder when curling. Try holding your upper arm still, parallel to your       chest, and concentrate on rotating around your elbow only.*

6. By joining the keypoints of the user's body, a 2D image of the correct posture while exercising will be displayed on the smart mirror superimposed on the user's image on mirror along with  of the same exercise.

  This helps the performer to detect what is wrong with their posture and hence correct it to prevent any injuries.
